In the previous video, we already learn about how
to remote cisco router and cisco switch in Cisco Packet Tracer.
There are 2 way, the first way
is using CLI inside the router or switch.
And the second way is using console cable from a
PC. You are free to use which one do you want.
And then, in this video we are going to learn
about basic command of cisco devices. The command
in cisco switch and router will be same. So in
this video, we just will use one of router or switch.
Because if you are familiar with router
let’s say, you will able to configure a switch.
But I think the font is to small,
let’s raise the font size first.
Go to Cisco Packet Tracer and then preference.
Remember that if you use windows, the preference
will be under edit. Here in the font tab, let’s
set the font size of CLI to 20. And then apply.
Okay now let’s go to the PC, open
the terminal. And here let’s just ok.
Okay now the font size is ok. And if we
open the CLI, the font size is also ok.
Okay now we can start learn about basic
command in cisco. But in this case we will just
use CLI tab of the router or switch. So we
don’t need a PC. let’s just delete it for now.
Okay, we will learn about basic cisco
command in the router. Let’s open the router.
The first thing that you need to know is
that in cisco, there is some permission level.
The first level is user level or
user mode. If we are in the user mode,
the symbol will be right angle bracket like this.
Okay so in this case, we are now in the user mode.
In the user mode, the command will be
limited, we just have read permission.
To see any command that we can use in
the user mode, we can type question mark.
Okay this is the commands that
we can use in the user mode.
There is some basic command to
troubleshooting like ping, and traceroute.
And here we also have telnet and ssh
command, this is to remote other devices.
And here if we see, there is no command to
do a configuration. Because
the permission is read only.
If we want to do a configuration,
we need to go to privilege mode.
The privilege mode will be have a full permission.
To go to privilege mode, we can
use command enable. Here we can see
that the symbol change to hash like this. This
is means that we are in the privilege mode.
And remember that privilege mode will be
have full permission. This is means that
the command that we can use here will
be much more than in the user mode.
Let’s type question mark
here. Okay here we can see
any command that we can use in the privilege
mode, and if we see here, we can see a more.
This is means that we still have other command
that we can use. To see the other command,
we can type enter. If we use enter
like this, we can see 1 other command.
We can also use space, if we type space,
we will see many other command at once.
Okay now we can see here that the command in the
privilege mode is much more than in the user mode.
Okay next, in the cisco also
have global configuration mode.
The global configuration mode will be used
to doing a configuration. Remember that
if you want to configuring anything, you
must go to global configuration mode first.
To go to global configuration mode,
we can use command configure terminal.
Okay here we can see a config like this.
This is means that we are in
the global configuration mode.
Now, if we already in the global configuration
mode like this, we can do a configuration.
So once again, always remember that if
you want to doing any configuration,
you need to go to global configuration mode first.
If we want to exit from global
configuration mode, we can just type exit.
Okay now here we can see that
we are in the privilege mode.
And if we try to exit again, we
will be in the user mode like this.
Okay now let’s try to enable
again to go to privilege mode.
I said before that to exit from privilege mode
to the user mode, we can use exit command.
Beside that, we also can use disable command.
Okay here we can see that we are in the user mode.
Okay now let’s enable again, and we
are going to do some configuration.
The first thing that we are going to configure
is a hostname. Hostname is just like the name
of our devices. By default, the hostname
of cisco router will be Router, and the
default hostname of cisco switch will be Switch.
Absolutely this will be confusing if the hostname
of all our router is just Router. This is why we
need to configure the hostname of each devices.
Now let’s try to configure the hostname.
Remember that if we want to configure anything,
we need to go to global configuration mode first.
Here let’s go to global configuration mode,
the command is configure terminal.
Oh I’m sorry, there is a typo here.
Okay here we can see that now we are
in the global configuration mode.
Now let’s configure the hostname.
The command is hostname space the hostname.
In this case the hostname will be Router1.
And when we enter, we can see here that
the hostname will be change like this.
Okay now we have done configuring the hostname.
Next we are going to configure a password.
If you see here, when we go to privilege mode from
user mode, we don’t need to type any password.
Absolutely this is not secure, because
remember that privilege mode is have
full permission. The best practice is, we need
to configure a password to go to privilege mode.
So not anyone can enter privilege mode,
but just some people who know the password.
Okay now let’s configure the password.
From global configuration mode like this,
we can type enable password and
the the password. Let’s say 123.
Okay we have done configuring the password. Now
let’s try to exit. Here we back to privilege mode,
and then exit again to back to user mode.
Okay now we are in the user mode. Now let’s try
to enable. Okay here we can see that now when we
want to go to privilege mode, we need to enter
a password. In this case, the password is 123.
When you type the password, there is
nothing display in the CLI like this,
so just type the password and enter. Okay here
we can see that now we are in the privilege mode.
Now let’s try to use the wrong password. Exit, and
then enable again. I try to use wrong password.
Here we can see that we are unable to go to
privilege mode. Okay let’s use the right password.
Next I will show you the other command. Which
is show running-config. Let’s try it first.
Okay so show running-config is used to see all
of the configuration that we already do.
Okay here we can see many configuration. But
most of these is the default configuration.
But here we can see some of
our configuration before,
here we can see hostname and password
configuration. But here, if we see the
password configuration, we can see the password
clearly. This is absolutely not secure.
So how we can configure the password more
secure? I will show you. But before that,
here we can see more. We can type enter
to see one more line of the configuration,
or we can type space to see many line of
configuration at once. Or if you want to quit,
you can type q. Okay here we are
going to quit from here, so type q.
Okay like I said before, I will show you
how to configure the password more secure.
Let’s go to global configuration mode.
Now to configure the password more secure, we
can use enable secret command. If you remember,
earlier we use enable password command,
but now we will use enable secret command.
Okay so the command is enable secret and then
the password. Let’s say the password is cisco.
Okay now let’s show running-config again.
Here we get an error, why? This is because show
command is the command in privilege mode.
So if we use show command in the global
configuration mode like this, we will
get an error. Now let’s exit to privilege mode
first, and then type show running-config again.
Okay here we can see that we don’t get an
error. But if you want to use show command
in the global configuration mode, we can
use "do". So here do show running-config.
Here we can see that we also don’t get
an error. Okay so remember that if you
want to use show command in the global
configuration mode, we will need a "do".
And also remember that we only need "do"
if we are in the configuration mode,
if we in the privilege mode, we will not need
"do". Let’s try.  Here in the privilege mode,
let’s type do show run. Here we get an error.
Okay next, here we can see that now we have
2 password. There is an enable secret.
Pay attention here, the password of enable secret will
be encrypted like this. So this is more secure.
And remember that if we have 2 password like this,
so there is an enable secret
and also enable password,
the password that will used is the enable
secret. Because enable secret is more secure.
Here let’s try to exit. And then enable
again. Let’s try to use the password
from enable password, the password is 123. Okay
here we are unable to enter privilege mode.
Now let’s try to use the password from
enable secret, the password is cisco.
Okay here we can see that we have
successfully enter the privilege mode.
Next, we are going to learn how to
remove configuration in cisco. Let’s say,
here we want to remove enable password.
Because this configuration is no longer used.
Okay go to global configuration mode.
To remove configuration in cisco,
we just need to type no and then the
command, so no enable password like this.
Now let’s try to show run again, remember that
now we are in the global configuration mode,
so we will need do. So here do show run.
Okay here we can see that the
enable password is no longer exist.
Okay I hope you understand
some basic command in cisco.
I think enough for this video, in the
next video we are going to learn about
cisco basic command again.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video